>> Maximiliano Flirtman: The weird part,
or the most complicated part,
we need to create the actual router, okay?
So we need to create a router that can
be a class, because it's a singleton.
I don't wanna have more than one router,
so I need only one.
I'm not creating a class and
then an instance of the class.
I'm just creating an option.
In JavaScript,
that's a pretty good pattern, okay?
So it's a singleton,
there is no other instance of that router.
And the router will have an init for
initial things that we will do, okay?
So let's say like that, init.
Like that, it will have go.
So go will receive a route.
And if we want to add
that route to history,
you will understand why
I'm using this later.
But for now, let's say that sometimes
you wanna go to another route,
but you don't wanna create
a new entry in the history.
>> Maximiliano Flirtman: There
are some reasons for that.
I mean, that means that if you
don't add an entry in the history,
you cannot go back to the previous one.
For example, login forms.
You have a login form and
then when you log in successfully,
you go to another page like my account.
What happens if you press the Back button?
You wanna go to the login screen again?
Because you're logged in,
being logged in is a state not the page.
So going back to the login in your screen,
that make so much sense.
So then you can just go to My Account,
the private page, but
without all need to a history, okay?
That makes sense?
Okay, so here we will have all
the all the details, okay?
To make that work, but let's do this.
I'm not sure if you have play with
the History API in your past.
This is actually a standard API for
the web.
By the way,
every time we are loading this,
we have a couple of errors that
are coming from our providers.
Also, there are some errors from
the YouTube embed sometimes, so
it's not our code.
The YouTube players sometimes have errors,
I don't know why.
But when you have the history API, it
will let us, for example, push and state.
PushState receives some data.
In case, if you wanna send data,
we can say, no, I don't wanna pass data.
We have an unused argument
that's actually pretty weird.
It's called unused, so
it has history reasons.
Someone thought that they were
to use the second argument, but
now they're not using it.
So it's just there.
And finally the URL.
I can say fake URL.
If I do this, what happens is that now
I can see that URL in the URL bar, okay?
As simple as this,
any URL with folders, whatever.
Anything you put here, it goes to the URL.
Of course, if I refresh, it's 404, right?
Because when you refresh,
it goes to the server.
And the server that URL does not exist.
And we will see how to deal
with that later, okay?
But we are faking the URL is
a completely fake URL client side, okay?
Makes sense?
And there is an event that we can bind to,
to actually listen for
changes in that URL.
So then every time you
are changing the URL,
you can render the right page,
and also something that happens
every time you push a state is that you
can go back using the back button or
in the mobile phone,
the gesture, the back gesture.
So now if I hit the back button,
it goes to the previous one and
then to the preview and
then it can go forward.
So, those fake URLs are adding
entries to the history.
Okay, do you have any
question on that part, no?
Okay, so let's implement that.
So, if we are adding to the history,
the current route,
what I want is to actually talk to
history, pushState, the same I did before.
No data is going to be
passed the unused argument.
It's a string, so
I will pass an empty string.
I'm sorry about that.
This is how it is.
It's a very old API, and by the way,
there is a new API available,
a modern API that is more complex,
it's better but it's not yet
100% compatible with all the browsers.
So that's why we are still using
this one that is from the 90s.
Actually not for
90s from mid 2000s Twilight.
It's not from the 90s, is from mid 2000.
And then the URL, and
the URL is actually the route that we
are receiving as an argument, okay?
So that's the idea.
And in init,
we need to do the reverse operation.
So I will listen for
pop state over the window.
So let's analyze this for a second.
PushState will push something into
a history and popState is an event
that will be fired when you're something
is going like back in history, okay?
With changing the state.
So if you're changing the state,
then I can just talk to the router and
say, hey,
we need to go again to this new URL.
Location path name will give you
the current URL but just a path.
Maybe we don't need to add to the history.
So if the user is going
back to a previous page,
I don't wanna add another history entry
for it because it's just going back.
Does it make sense?
You add entries in history when
you're going forward to new pages.
So if you're going back,
if not, you go back and
you're adding a new entry,
it doesn't make any sense.
>> Speaker 2: Is there a reason
you wouldn't use window?
Got location here instead
of just location.
>> Maximiliano Flirtman: So the question
is, why I'm not using location and
not window not location, okay?
So the answer is that it's
exactly the same thing.
Window is a global scope
in browser JavaScript.
So everything that you have on window
is actually a global variable or
a global option.
In fact,
I don't need to add window [INAUDIBLE].
It's just words without it,
but at that point,
I don't think you
understand what's going on.
So if you see a not even listener there,
you don't understand if it's
a router even listener.
So it's not, it's a window, but it's like,
I think that I need the window
to see exactly what's going on.
For location,
I don't think it's needed, but
actually, when you are creating
a global variable here,
actually that variable
is sitting on window.
>> Maximiliano Flirtman: So
every global variable becomes an object
of the global context that
in the browser is window.
In Node.js, it's a different object.
In a service worker or a web worker,
it's a different option.
okay?
So, I don't have any special reason
of why I'm not using window location.
The thing is that I don't
think it's needed there.
I don't think that I need to add
that context, but you can add it and
it's just the same.
Okay, make sense?
Okay, so that will then go and go back.
When we are initializing the router, by
the way, we are not calling that yet, so
we need to call that.
Also we need to initialize, or,
let's say, go to the initial route.
So when you start the page,
I need to go to the first or
the current URL.
I will say Router.go to the current
pathname and location.search as well.
You will see why we need this.
Search is actually question mark on
what goes after the question mark there.
So it's just the pathname and
the location.